I have been developing the Swanson Pyramid of Greatness for years. It’s a perfectly calibrated recipe for maximum personal achievement. Categories include: Capitalism, God’s way of determining who is smart, and who is poor. Crying, acceptable at funerals and the Grand Canyon. Rage. Poise. Property rights. Fish, for sport only, not for meat. Fish meat is practically a vegetable.
The less I know about other people’s affairs, the happier I am. I’m not interested in caring about people. I once worked with a guy for three years and never learned his name. Best friend I ever had. We still never talk sometimes.
I call this turn 'n' turn. It's a 16 oz T-bone and a 24 oz porterhouse. I am going to consume all of this because I am a free American.
I’m surrounded by a lot of women in this department. And that includes the men.
When I walked in this morning I saw that the flag was at half mast, I though, ‘All right, another bureaucrat ate it!’ And then I saw it was Lil’ Sebastian. Half mast is too high. Show some damn respect.
Crying: Acceptable at funerals and the Grand Canyon.
I got my first job when i was 9. Worked at a sheet metal factory. In two weeks, I was running the floor. Child labor laws are ruining this country.
Fishing relaxes me. It's like yoga, except I still get to kill something.
Encapsulate the spirit of melancholy. Easy. Boom, a sad desk. Boom, sad wall. It’s art. Anything is anything.
I am off to have a mid-morning pre-lunch with my lady friend, but I will be back in time for lunch.
The key to burning an ex-wife effigy is to dip it in paraffin wax and then toss the flaming bottle of isopropyl alcohol from a safe distance. Do not stand too close when you light an ex-wife effigy.
It’s never too early to learn that the government is a greedy piglet that suckles on a taxpayer’s teet until they have sore, chapped nipples. I’m gonna need a different metaphor to give this nine year old.
(His museum speech) "Shut up. And look at me. Welcome to Visions of Nature. This room has several paintings in it. Some are big and some are small. People did them and they are here now. I believe after this is over they will be hung in government buildings. Why the government is involved in an art show is beyond me. I also think it’s pointless for a human to paint scenes of nature when they can go outside and stand in it.
Haircuts: There are three acceptable haircuts. High and tight, crew cut and buzz cut.
Of all my coworkers he is one of a small number of whom I do not actively root against…uh, there I go again gettin’ all sappy.
I have cried twice in my life. Once when I was seven and I was hit by a school bus. And then again when I heard that Li’l Sebastian had passed.
If it doesn't have meat it's a snack.
I don’t want to paint with a broad brush here, but every single contractor in the world is a miserable, incompetent thief.
When people get a little too chummy with me, I like to call them by the wrong name to let them know I don't really care about them.
I won’t publicly endorse a product unless I use it exclusively. My only official recommendations are U.S. Army issued mustache trimmers, Morton’s salt, and the C.R. Lawrence Fein two inch axe-style scraper oscillating knife blade.
(Explaining to a little girl) This is your lunch. You should be able to do whatever you want to with this, right?...But here I come, the government, and I get to take 40% of your lunch. And that, Lauren, is how taxes work.
Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. Don’t teach a man to fish, and you feed yourself. He’s a grown man. Fishing’s not that hard.
On my death bed, my final wish is to have my ex-wives rush to my side so I can use my dying breath to tell them both to go to hell one last time. Would I get married again? Oh, absolutely. If you don't believe in love, what's the point of living?
I'm a simple man. I like pretty, dark-haired women and breakfast food. But this stock photo I bought at a framing store isn't real. Today I got the real thing: A naked Tammy made me breakfast this morning. Should have taken a picture of it...
Under my tutelage, you will grow from boys to men. From men into gladiators. And from gladiators into Swansons.
[On bowling] "Straight down the middle. No hook, no spin, no fuss. Anything more and this becomes figure skating.
Clear alcohols are for rich women on diets.
Never half-ass two things. Whole-ass one thing.
No home is complete without a proper toolbox. Here’s April and Andy’s: A hammer, a half eaten pretzel, a baseball card, some cartridge that says Sonic and Hedgehog, a scissor half, a flashlight filled with jellybeans.
Turkey can never beat cow.
It’s always a good idea to demonstrate to your coworkers that you are capable of withstanding a tremendous amount of pain.
Capitalism: God’s way of determining who is smart and who is poor.
Fish is for sport only, not for meat. Fish meat is practically a vegetable.
Friends: one to three is sufficient.
Honor: if you need it defined, you don’t have it.
One rage every three months is permitted. Try not to hurt anyone who doesn’t deserve it.
Only women shave beneath the neck.
Give 100%. 110% is impossible. Only idiots recommend that.
I'm here for the same reason people go to zoos. Shhhh, look at that guy. Nature is amazing.
Son, you should know that my suggestion is essentially a guarantee.
I also think it's pointless for a human to paint scenes of nature when they can just go outside and stand in it.
I'd go to a banquet in honor of those Somali pirates if they served bacon wrapped shrimp.
If you're gonna stay here, there are three rules you need to follow: One, no talk about Tammy One. Two, no talk about Ben. Three, no talk.
Every two weeks I need to sand down my toe nails. They're too strong for clippers.
There’s only one thing I hate more than lying: skim milk. Which is water that’s lying about being milk.
Leslie: "Why would anybody ever eat anything besides breakfast food?" Ron: "People are idiots, Leslie.”
Are you going to tell a man that he can’t fart in his own car?
Any dog under fifty pounds is a cat and cats are useless.
Cultivating a manly musk puts opponents on notice.
Great job, everyone. The reception will be held in each of our individual houses, alone.
There are only three ways to motivate people: money, fear, and hunger.
Ann: How many drinks of alcohol do you consume a week? Ron: One. Ann: That’s it? One drink? Ron: One shelf. Ann: Do you exercise? Ron: Yes. Lovemaking and woodworking. Ann: Do you have any history of mental illness in your family? Ron: I have an uncle who does yoga. Ann: What about your sex life? Ron: Epic... and private.
Strippers do nothing for me…but I will take a free breakfast buffet anytime, anyplace.
I like saying ‘No,’ it lowers their enthusiasm.
You had me at meat tornado.
Traeger: Ron, would you like some salad? Swanson: (chuckles) Since I am not a rabbit, no, I do not.
Visitor: Am I interrupting anything important? Ron: Impossible, I work for the government.
Traeger: Have you ever had a turkeyburger? Swanson: Is that a fried turkey leg wrapped inside a burger? Because if so, then yes. Delicious.
What's a not gay way to ask him to go camping with me?
Recently, I made a chair. When I was finished, I thought it was a good chair. I submitted it to the Indiana fine woodworking association, who felt it merited consideration for an award. It's been a real whirlwind.
Ron: Thank you all for being here. Let's get started.  Leslie: Wow. Great attitude, Ron. Ron:  Sorry, I was talking to these ribs.
Chris: Ron, I want to do things the Swanson way. Ron: Wonderful. First rule. No conversation lasts longer than 100 total words. I have used 9. You have used 20. 
Donna: Oh my God, you are such a sore loser. Ron: I am not a sore loser. It’s just that I prefer to win and when I don’t, I get furious. 
I will leave my children $50 a piece. Enough for the cab ride home from the funeral and a steak dinner. End of discussion.
Ron: The three most useless jobs in the world in order are: lawyer, congressman, and doctor.
I've had the same will since I was 8 years old. Upon my death, I will transfer all of my belongings to the man or animal who has killed me.
Ron: We only subscribe to two magazines: Reader's Digest and Ebony. Ebony was a clerical error but it was an interesting year of reading.
 I believe in cutting useless government projects. I also believe in cutting useful government projects.
 Normally, if given the choice between doing something and doing nothing, I'll do nothing. But I will do something if it helps someone else do nothing. I'd work all night if it meant that nothing got done.
 What's cholesterol?
I'll represent myself as I do in all legal matters and livestock auctions.
Ron: I'll have number eight. Waiter: That's a party platter, sir. Ron: I know what I am, son.
I wish this office had only walls.
I wouldn't know. I've never been hungover. After I've had too much whiskey, I cook myself a large flank steak, pan fried and salted butter. I eat that, put on a pair of wet socks and go to sleep.
I'm going to get 12 eggs and part of a dead animal. Dealer's choice. Please and thank you.
In my opinion, not enough people have looked their dinner in the eyes and considered the circle of life.
Jerry's work is often adequate.
Ron: What are you doing here? Leslie: Running away from my problems. Ron: Come on in.
(On birthdays) I don't like loud noises and people making a fuss. And I especially don't like people celebrating, because they know a piece of private information about me. Plus the whole thing is a scam. Birthdays were invented by Hallmark to sell cards.
I'm going to type every word I know! Rectangle. America. Megaphone. Monday. Butthole.
Well, I am not usually one for speeches. So, goodbye.
Ron: I suffer from a disorder called Sleep Fighting. Leslie: Wow, must be terrible. Ron: Only when I'm losing.
I have to nap up. If I don't get a solid five, it kills my sunny disposition.
Those dates are arbitrary. They're like those expiration dates that the government forces companies to put on yogurt and medicine.
(His workshop being inspected) Mark: Ron, none of this is up to code. Ron: Sure it is. It's up to the Swanson code. Mark: You've got hazardous chemicals over here. Ron: Yeah, which only I am breathing. It's the same liberty that gives me the right to fart in my own car. Are you going to tell a man that he can't fart in his own car?
My name is Ron. You don't need to know my last name. Whoever wants to talk, go ahead and we'll be out of here in a tight fifteen.
Ron: This seems like none of our business. Leslie: Be supportive, OK? Don't be all like, "No. I don't want to. I am a guy and I like fire, and playing hockey and eating meat. No, no says I." April: That was a really good Ron.
Dear frozen yogurt, you are the celery of desserts. Be ice cream or be nothing.
I believe luck is a concept invented by the weak to explain their failures. 
